---
layout: post
---
I'm sitting here thinking about the "coding" block I've added to my schedule. It's a 2 hour block/day &mdash; which means almost 800 hours of focused work a year. What could I possibly spend it learning? 

I originally thought, pick up a programming language &mdash; like NodeJS. I wanted to become more "technical", whatever that meant. I think at the core, I wanted to go back to actually building something (A need I've since been able to partially fulfill in my plane building attempts). 

So yeah, back to the question. Being more technical. That's obviously meaningless, and it's clear that the best way to actually become better at something is to build whatever the heck it is you're learning in order to build. It's a very roundabout way of going about things, this. The best way to learn is to build. 

So yeah, back to the question that matters &mdash; what the heck am I trying to build? Nothing. Exactly, and therein lies the problem.

## A better question

> What skills can I learn now that will help be become a better ______ in a year?

That's better. Now, how do I fill in that pesky blank. Developer? Manager? Builder/maker?

See, there's a ton of things I *could* learn. Here are some that have recently come to mind:

- front-end designer
- illustrator
- emberjs expert
- rust (it's all the rage now)
- Pixhawk/APM contributor
- C-hacker
- Python
- Machine Learning
- Javascript/NodeJS ninja (finally&hellip;)
- algorithms

The point is, these are all characteristics that could make me more employable down the line. Once employed, I can make money.

If the whole point is to make money though, why don't I just cut to the chase and work on that? 

## The Smart route

Some of the smartest people I know aren't themselves looking to get employed, they are employers. It's a much better place to be in, and you get to create something on your own terms. Tbe best place to start, regardless of whether you're building a venture-backed company or a bootstrapped one, is to build a bootstrapped one.

Paul Graham concurs, as do many other folks. Unless you're building a cure for cancer, or some sort of fundamental breakthrough in science, chances are you can get by with very little funding. So instead of wasting your time trying to learn generic skills that *could* help you down the line, why don't you just start the damn journey today?

Example inspirations of folks that've done this include:

- Jason Cohen (most recently, WP engine)
- Jason Fried (Basecamp) &mdash; what's with all the Jason's?
- Nathan Barry (ConvertKit)

These folks have done it, and in the case of Nathan &mdash; I personally followed along as he went from just a freelancer to a CEO. He's very open about the process, and blog about *everything*.

The bottom line is: why don't I just find a problem worth solving, and solve it.

## Jason Cohen

It's here that I'm going to rely on Jason Cohen's advice from [a pitch at Microconf that I recently watched](https://vimeo.com/74338272). In it, he describes exactly what sort of criteria you need to look for when coming up with a business that could sustain you and grow into something worthwhile.

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/74338272?portrait=0" width="640" height="360" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>

Watched it? Great, let's recap some important points:

### 1. Advice for picking an idea (Market)

- B2B *only*. 
- Continuous pain / value
	- Avoid timely/temporary pain (weddings, events, etc.)
	- Find something naturally recurring (e.g. hosting, support, email service, financial services)
- Avoid real-time support requirement
- Avoid marketplace
	- It's like having 2 startups in one &mdash; hard!
	- Also, rewarding (i.e. it's defensible).
- Something that can be finished
	- You're not competing on who has the most features (it's feature creep proof)
	- Features aren't a buying decision in the product/service
- Aftermarkets are great (if you can)
	- Bolt on to existing markets (e.g. Wordpress, Photoshop plugins, etc)
	- You get support from the underlying ecosystem (e.g. Salesforce, Heroku)
- Big market
	- Allows for many niches to exist
	- Doesn't have to be #1 product or GTFO &mdash; can allow for multiple OK products
- Don't pickup pennies (e.g. we get <5% of total transaction value)

### 2. Once you have an idea (Revenue)

- Get 150 customers
	- Do that via LinkedIn (send email to your target customers; I'll pay for an hour of your time to talk about this problem/product)
	- Find 30 people that'll give you $50/mo. before you have *anything*, only if you'll agree to build it.
- Annual prepaid
	- Give 2 months free standard
	- Send out coupons to bloggers for 3 months free
- Charge a LOT
	- Average $70 across tiers (e.g. $49/$99/$150). Highlight middle one; call the most expensive "business"
	- Charge more, but have coupons (<strike>$79</strike> $49/mo.)
	- Charge more for priority support &mdash; you're going to do the support anyway, this just affects the order (basically free money)
	- You're **boutique**. You deserve to charge more
- No free trial
	- Offer a 60 day money back guarantee instead

### 3. Getting customers (Customer acquisition)

- Use ads, NOT social media
- CPC = MRR / 25. Assumptions include:
	- LTV = MRR * 20
 	- CAC = LTV / 5
	- Conversion rate = 1%

### 4. Once you have customers (Metrics)

- Monitor your ARPU (Average Revenue per User).

