---
layout: post
---

I've been feeling some trepidation lately around various decisions I'm making &mdash; reflecting on my career today, and where I'm taking it forward. This'll officially be my 10th year working and I find that I haven't really seriously taken a long hard look at my career to see where it might head up. I've considered life of course, of which my career represents a part. I make a distinction here between career and my work &mdash; the frame of reference, when talking about careers, is outside in. As for work, I'm thinking inside out (me, looking outside). 

One of the big reasons I've considered Facebook over other companies is because of the "brand value" that Facebook the name would have on my CV &hellip; but I didn't stop to think about why I give a shit about that at all? When have I considered the opinions of others when making decisions that affect how I spend the few remaining years of my life? Here's when: GE. Yup, that's when it last happened. I'd argue that Payfort was a bit more of the same &mdash; and that happened right around the time that I was about to get married. Anytime I considered how much *easier* life would be if I picked a certain decision, I've come back to regret it.

So is this going to be the same? It might.

I say might because now I have a further theory that I think might change how I approach entrepreneurship. While I'd previously considered diving head first as being the only real path to success, I now think that an alternate path may exist &mdash; one that is not mutually exclusive with taking up a job. It's difficult to know if this concept is one that I think has real intellectual merit, or if I'm just saying this in order to convince myself to take the big paycheck instead of spending the months working on something that has little possibility of a monetary gain in the near term (drones).


