---
layout: post
---

I often wondered what life would be like if I didn't have to work &mdash; say, like some Sheikha in Bahrain that gets a salary just for existing. What would like be like? In this made up scenario, I imagine myself having the freedom to pursue audacious goals &mdash; after all, with no responsibiities to hold me back, what else is there to do? Now however, when I do find myself in just such a situation &mdash; one where I don't *have* to work, and have all the time of the day to myself &mdash; I find myself lost.

Yeah, lost.

Why? It's hard to explain. On the one hand, the freedom is amazing. You get to work on whatever you want, and without any consideration for what the financial reprecussions on such a line of work may be. That's undoubtedly great. On the other hand, knowing that you could work on anything makes taking that first step really hard. What would you embark on? It's knowing that picking one thing essentially eliminates all of the other possibilities that I find hard to swallow. That transition from i-can-do-anything-i-want to im-focusing-100%-on-this-thing is what's difficult.

Since starting work on [Teleport](/teleport), I've found that it doesn't take up as much of my time as I thought it would. I do a couple of flights a day, and spend an aggregate of about 5 - 6 hours on it in a typical day. For the rest of the day, I just sorta coast. I spend about 2 hours on Quran, and another hour or so helping my wife out with her studies. The rest of the day remains largely unplanned &mdash; sometimes spent on reading, often just drifting by in the ether. I think there's more I can do &mdash; to better myself, and put myself in a situation where I can be a productive member of society.

That means I either **get a job**, or build **a copmany**. Sure I can spend a part of my day just fudging about with random stuff like Physics, Coding, etc. but that's just for fun &mdash; there has to be a driver to push me to create something that's valuable, and people pay for valuable things. Money is a proxy for measuring the market value of something.


