---
title:  "Shoe Dog - A memoir by the creator of Nike"
date:   2016-07-31 18:43:33 +0300
rating: 5
link: https://www.amazon.com/Shoe-Dog-Memoir-Creator-Nike-ebook/dp/B0176M1A44/
cover: shoe-dog.jpg
---

His philosophy, one he repeats throughout the book, is one I tend to agree with:

> Don’t tell people how to do things, tell them what to do and let them surprise you with their results.

Another thing that really reverberated with me was the focus on *winning*, and not just on *not losing* .. It’s pretty amazing, lamenting on this statement, how I often think about things through the same lens. I often catch myself trying to “minimize my losses” and account for the “worst case scenario” (e.g. calculating runway before I have to move back to my parents house or get a job) vs. looking at the upside. I don’t spend nearly enough time thinking about winning.

Interesting facts, having read the book:

- He was still running a day job after making $86K in sales that year, and with 4 full time employees. Wow.
- The supplier troubles he initially faced with Onitsuka sound oddly familiar to me, having been through the Network International experience. Being at the mercy of a single supplier is a ticking time bomb. Not a matter of if but when (it’ll blow up)
- One thing that strikes me is that the entire concept of Nike, to begin with, was one of a reseller. They didn’t design the shoes at first — they just sold them (occasionally funneling customer feedback to the factory and tweaking things accordingly).
This is a big deal.
Even with a company that was so lame and boring (business-wise), he managed to create a sense of purpose and instill values in the company that made it much more than just a shoe reseller.
This is the power of vision, and the importance of setting & having a mission.
